Hi and welcome back, in this video, let's talk
about importing parents.
I'm going to run app.py again, and notice how the first file
that was imported is "find", and the "find" file first
imported "file_operations", so that's the first file that
runs the completion, and we print out
"utils.common.file_operations", "find" file then prints
"utils.find", down here, and the app then prints "main".
Going to the file operations, how could we...
Uh, I'm going to delete this import in there, by the way.
How could we import the parents?
So in the app.py, I'm going to say
"from utils.common.file_operations", or rather
"import utils.common.file_operations", now this is going to
go into file_operations, and how could we import the
"not found" error, inside "find"?
Well, once again, there are two ways, "from utils.find
"import NotFoundError", then when we run this, "utils.find"
will be the first line to be printed out, because "app" is
importing "file_operations".
"file_operations" is importing "find", "find" is the file
that's not importing anything, that one runs the completion,
then it goes back to "file_operation", prints out the name,
then it runs back to "app", and it prints out that name.
As you can see, this is exactly what happens
"find" prints out first, "utils.common.file_operations"
print out second, and "main" prints out third.
Now if we want to import the parent, we can do that, we can
tell "find" to go over to the parent package, and the way
we do that, is not with a single dot, but with two dots.
Two dots say "You're inside common, I want you to go
"up to utils.", see?
Notice how the current package is "common.file_operations"
or rather, right now we are at
"utils.common.file_operations", when you give it a single
dot, it puts you in "utils.common", when you give it two
dots, it puts you in "utils", then "utils.find" is fine.
So, this gets replaced by "utils.", and then you can access
"find" in it, and this works fine, as you can see I've just
reran the app and it works, it goes up by two packages,
remember we are here in "file_operations", it goes up
two packages, over to "utils", sorry one package over
to "utils", and then it finds the "find" module there.
Of course, what happens if we run "file_operations"?
Now, it says a slightly different error, "attempted relative
"import beyond top-level package", because this is "main",
it doesn't have any parent packages, remember, if this is
"main", it's not like we can go up a package, we could only
go up a package if this is "utils.common.file_operations",
then we can go up a package over to "utils", but if this is
"main", we can't go up anywhere, because there's nowhere
to go up to, there's no other packages in the name.
OK?
So this is a parent import, that you can do, as long as
you're running this file as a module and not as a script.
So it is dangerous, because, say you wanted to print out
the name of this file to find out exactly what it is,
you cannot do it, if it has a relative import.
You can only do it, if it has "utils.common.find", sorry,
"utils.find", now that this has an absolute import,
you can absolutely run this file, and it imports
"utils.find", and then this one is "main".
So that works.
So, why does it work?
How does it know that "utils" is at the top of the package,
when it itself is down here?
Well, that's a thing for PYTHONPATH.
So we're not going to talk about PYTHONPATH, but
just know that it defines the top-level of your project.
So if your PYTHONPATH which PyCharm sets for you, is set
to the "imports_project", then you can do absolute imports
starting from there, and that is the purpose of the
PYTHONPATH, but again we're not gonna get into it yet,
we will talk about it later on, when we talk about running
Python from the terminal, as opposed to through PyCharm.
But this is why this works.
So now that we've learned about relative and absolute
imports, we can be begin to understand exactly what's going
on, when we import things, and if you want to do relative
imports, by all means, do them if you want, just remember,
you may not be able to ever run those files as scripts
anymore, and running files as scripts can be handy,
when you want to run some particular thing in them.
Maybe to debug them or to understand what's going on
in a file, and so absolute imports, I think, are better,
and I would encourage you to use them, but you're gonna find
relative imports everywhere, as you learn more Python.
So that's it for this video, I hope you enjoyed it and
I hope you learned something,
and I'll see you on the next one.